README.md, before:

<p>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/andersfylling/discordgateway">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/andersfylling/discordgateway/branch/master/graph/badge.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href='https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway'>
    <img src='https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway' alt='Code coverage' />
  </a>
  <a href='https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway'>
    <img src="https://pkg.go.dev/badge/andersfylling/discordgateway" alt="PkgGoDev">
  </a>
</p>
<p>Use the existing disgord channels for discussion</p>
<p>
  <a href='https://discord.gg/fQgmBg'>
    <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord%20Gophers-%23disgord-blue.svg' alt='Discord Gophers' />
  </a>
  <a href='https://discord.gg/HBTHbme'>
    <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord%20API-%23disgord-blue.svg' alt='Discord API' />
  </a>
</p>

# Ideology

Discord is a mess. Consistency is a luxury. And simplicity is somewhere over there or here.

This project aims to normalize some namings, make interacting more intuitive and development a smoother experience.

Certain events and intents have been renamed in accordance to the famous CRUD naming scheme.

Philosophy/requirements:
 - Complete control of goroutines (if desired)
 - intents are derived from GuildEvents and DMEvents specified in the configuration
- desired events must be specified in the config, others are ignored (this allows for optimizations behind the scenes)
 - You're responsible for reading all incoming data
 - Sending gateway commands returns an error on failure
 - context support
 - Control over reconnect, disconnect, or behavior for handling discord errors

## Simple shard example 
> This code uses github.com/gobwas/ws, but you are free to use other
> websocket implementations as well. You just have to write your own Shard implementation
> and use GatewayState. See shard.go for inspiration.

Here no handler is registered. Simply replace `nil` with a function pointer to read events (events with operation code 0).

```go
package main

import (
	"context"
	"errors"
	"fmt"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/event"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/log"
	"io"
	"net"
	"os"
)

func main() {
	shard, err := discordgateway.NewShard(nil, &discordgateway.ShardConfig{
		BotToken:            os.Getenv("DISCORD_TOKEN"),
		GuildEvents:         event.All(),
		DMEvents:            nil,
		TotalNumberOfShards: 1,
		IdentifyProperties: discordgateway.GatewayIdentifyProperties{
			OS:      "linux",
			Browser: "github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway v0",
			Device:  "tester",
		},
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

reconnect:
	conn, err := shard.Dial(context.Background(), "wss://gateway.discord.gg/?v=8&encoding=json")
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal("failed to open websocket connection. ", err)
	}

	if op, err := shard.EventLoop(context.Background(), conn); err != nil {
		var discordErr *discordgateway.CloseError
		if errors.As(err, &discordErr) {
			switch discordErr.Code {
			case 1001, 4000: // will initiate a resume
				fallthrough
			case 4007, 4009: // will do a fresh identify
				goto reconnect
			case 4001, 4002, 4003, 4004, 4005, 4008, 4010, 4011, 4012, 4013, 4014:
			default:
				log.Error(fmt.Errorf("unhandled close error, with discord op code(%d): %d", op, discordErr.Code))
			}
		}
		var errClosed *discordgateway.ErrClosed
		if errors.As(err, &errClosed) || errors.Is(err, net.ErrClosed) || errors.Is(err, io.ErrClosedPipe) {
			log.Debug("connection closed/lost .. will try to reconnect")
			goto reconnect
		}
	} else {
		goto reconnect
	}
}
```

## Gateway command
To request guild members, update voice state or update presence, you can utilize Shard.Write or GatewayState.Write (same logic). 
The bytes argument should not contain the discord payload wrapper (operation code, event name, etc.), instead you write only
the inner object and specify the relevant operation code.

> Calling Write(..) before dial or instantiating a net.Conn object will cause the process to fail. You must be connected.

```go

package main

import (
	"context"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/event"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/log"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/opcode"
	"os"
)

func main() {
	shard, err := discordgateway.NewShard(nil, &discordgateway.ShardConfig{
		BotToken:            os.Getenv("DISCORD_TOKEN"),
		GuildEvents:         event.All(),
		TotalNumberOfShards: 1,
		IdentifyProperties: discordgateway.GatewayIdentifyProperties{
			OS:      "linux",
			Browser: "github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway v0",
			Device:  "tester",
		},
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

	if _, err := shard.Dial(context.Background(), "wss://gateway.discord.gg/?v=8&encoding=json"); err != nil {
		log.Fatal("failed to open websocket connection. ", err)
	}

	req := `{"guild_id":"23423","limit":0,"query":""}`
	if err := shard.Write(opcode.EventRequestGuildMembers, []byte(req)); err != nil {
		log.Fatal("failed to request guild members", err)
    }
    
    // ...
}
```

If you need to manually set the intent value for whatever reason, the ShardConfig exposes an "Intents" field.
Note that intents will still be derived from DMEvents and GuildEvents and added to the final intents value used
to identify.

## Identify rate limit
When you have multiple shards, you must inject a channel to rate limit identifies. The CommandRateLimitChan is optional in either case.
When no channel for identifies are injected, one is created with the standard 1 identify per 5 second.

## Live bot for testing
There is a bot running the gobwas code. Found in the cmd subdir. If you want to help out the "stress testing", you can add the bot here: https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?scope=bot&client_id=792491747711123486&permissions=0

It only reads incoming events and waits to crash. Once any alerts such as warning, error, fatal, panic triggers; I get a notification so I can quickly patch the problem!


## Support

 - [ ] Voice
 - [x] Gateway
   - [X] Intents
   - [x] Events
   - [ ] Commands
   - [x] JSON
   - [ ] ETF
   - [x] Rate limit
     - [x] Identify
     - [x] Commands
 - [ ] Shard(s) manager
 - [ ] Buffer pool

Commit message:

replace identify rate limit channel with interface

README.md, after:

<p>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/andersfylling/discordgateway">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/andersfylling/discordgateway/branch/master/graph/badge.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href='https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway'>
    <img src='https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway' alt='Code coverage' />
  </a>
  <a href='https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway'>
    <img src="https://pkg.go.dev/badge/andersfylling/discordgateway" alt="PkgGoDev">
  </a>
</p>
<p>Use the existing disgord channels for discussion</p>
<p>
  <a href='https://discord.gg/fQgmBg'>
    <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord%20Gophers-%23disgord-blue.svg' alt='Discord Gophers' />
  </a>
  <a href='https://discord.gg/HBTHbme'>
    <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord%20API-%23disgord-blue.svg' alt='Discord API' />
  </a>
</p>

# Ideology

Discord is a mess. Consistency is a luxury. And simplicity is somewhere over there or here.

This project aims to normalize some namings, make interacting more intuitive and development a smoother experience.

Certain events and intents have been renamed in accordance to the famous CRUD naming scheme.

Philosophy/requirements:
 - Complete control of goroutines (if desired)
 - intents are derived from GuildEvents and DMEvents specified in the configuration
- desired events must be specified in the config, others are ignored (this allows for optimizations behind the scenes)
 - You're responsible for reading all incoming data
 - Sending gateway commands returns an error on failure
 - context support
 - Control over reconnect, disconnect, or behavior for handling discord errors

## Simple shard example 
> This code uses github.com/gobwas/ws, but you are free to use other
> websocket implementations as well. You just have to write your own Shard implementation
> and use GatewayState. See shard.go for inspiration.

Here no handler is registered. Simply replace `nil` with a function pointer to read events (events with operation code 0).

```go
package main

import (
	"context"
	"errors"
	"fmt"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/event"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/log"
	"io"
	"net"
	"os"
)

func main() {
	shard, err := discordgateway.NewShard(nil, &discordgateway.ShardConfig{
		BotToken:            os.Getenv("DISCORD_TOKEN"),
		GuildEvents:         event.All(),
		DMEvents:            nil,
		TotalNumberOfShards: 1,
		IdentifyProperties: discordgateway.GatewayIdentifyProperties{
			OS:      "linux",
			Browser: "github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway v0",
			Device:  "tester",
		},
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

reconnect:
	conn, err := shard.Dial(context.Background(), "wss://gateway.discord.gg/?v=8&encoding=json")
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal("failed to open websocket connection. ", err)
	}

	if op, err := shard.EventLoop(context.Background(), conn); err != nil {
		var discordErr *discordgateway.CloseError
		if errors.As(err, &discordErr) {
			switch discordErr.Code {
			case 1001, 4000: // will initiate a resume
				fallthrough
			case 4007, 4009: // will do a fresh identify
				goto reconnect
			case 4001, 4002, 4003, 4004, 4005, 4008, 4010, 4011, 4012, 4013, 4014:
			default:
				log.Error(fmt.Errorf("unhandled close error, with discord op code(%d): %d", op, discordErr.Code))
			}
		}
		var errClosed *discordgateway.ErrClosed
		if errors.As(err, &errClosed) || errors.Is(err, net.ErrClosed) || errors.Is(err, io.ErrClosedPipe) {
			log.Debug("connection closed/lost .. will try to reconnect")
			goto reconnect
		}
	} else {
		goto reconnect
	}
}
```

## Gateway command
To request guild members, update voice state or update presence, you can utilize Shard.Write or GatewayState.Write (same logic). 
The bytes argument should not contain the discord payload wrapper (operation code, event name, etc.), instead you write only
the inner object and specify the relevant operation code.

> Calling Write(..) before dial or instantiating a net.Conn object will cause the process to fail. You must be connected.

```go

package main

import (
	"context"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/event"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/log"
	"github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway/opcode"
	"os"
)

func main() {
	shard, err := discordgateway.NewShard(nil, &discordgateway.ShardConfig{
		BotToken:            os.Getenv("DISCORD_TOKEN"),
		GuildEvents:         event.All(),
		TotalNumberOfShards: 1,
		IdentifyProperties: discordgateway.GatewayIdentifyProperties{
			OS:      "linux",
			Browser: "github.com/andersfylling/discordgateway v0",
			Device:  "tester",
		},
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

	if _, err := shard.Dial(context.Background(), "wss://gateway.discord.gg/?v=8&encoding=json"); err != nil {
		log.Fatal("failed to open websocket connection. ", err)
	}

	req := `{"guild_id":"23423","limit":0,"query":""}`
	if err := shard.Write(opcode.EventRequestGuildMembers, []byte(req)); err != nil {
		log.Fatal("failed to request guild members", err)
    }
    
    // ...
}
```

If you need to manually set the intent value for whatever reason, the ShardConfig exposes an "Intents" field.
Note that intents will still be derived from DMEvents and GuildEvents and added to the final intents value used
to identify.

## Identify rate limit
When you have multiple shards, you must inject a rate limiter for identify. The CommandRateLimitChan is optional in either case.
When no rate limiter for identifies are injected, one is created with the standard 1 identify per 5 second.

See the IdentifyRateLimiter interface for minimum implementation.

## Live bot for testing
There is a bot running the gobwas code. Found in the cmd subdir. If you want to help out the "stress testing", you can add the bot here: https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?scope=bot&client_id=792491747711123486&permissions=0

It only reads incoming events and waits to crash. Once any alerts such as warning, error, fatal, panic triggers; I get a notification so I can quickly patch the problem!


## Support

 - [ ] Voice
 - [x] Gateway
   - [X] Intents
   - [x] Events
   - [ ] Commands
   - [x] JSON
   - [ ] ETF
   - [x] Rate limit
     - [x] Identify
     - [x] Commands
 - [ ] Shard(s) manager
 - [ ] Buffer pool
